---
title: "Understanding and supporting self-regulated learning in an undergraduate chemistry course."
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2014-08-01-talk-BCCE
venue: "Biennial Conference on Chemical Education, Grand Valley State University"
date: 2014-08-01
location: "Allendale, MI"
---

Self-regulated learning (SRL) is an approach to understanding learning that incorporates metacognition, strategic actions, and motivation. Research has linked SRL ability to success during and after college and as such is considered by many to be a broad goal of college education1. In a one-semester organic/biochemistry course targeted to pre-nursing students, we set a goal of supporting students in becoming self-regulated learners. We used weekly surveys to support SRL practices, particularly reflection and planning. Students also answered if they were confident about understanding specific course content areas as a way to support their reflection. 

Analysis of pilot data suggested that confidence on course topics is related to student preparation for and use of different course components, such as lecture. For example, between confident and not confident reports by students there was a persistent gap in the report of lecture as helpful. These pilot data led us to develop an intervention, similar to Cook, Kennedy and McGuire2, to introduce students to ideas of metacognition and self-regulation; however, we used an interactive approach. A 30-minute workshop was used to introduce students to three key SRL practices: reflection, goal setting and planning. The intervention was implemented following the first exam in FA2013 and SP2014 semesters. Student performance, weekly survey responses, and responses to post semester surveys will be analyzed and emergent patterns will be discussed.
