---
title: "New chemistry graduate TAs: Development of Teaching Identity"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2016-08-01-talk-BCCE2
venue: "Biennial Conference on Chemical Education, University of Northern Colorado"
date: 2016-08-01
location: "Greeley, CO"
---

Graduate students play a vital role in college chemistry education. As TAs, they have
extensive interaction with students in entry level chemistry. However, little support is given to
them to help them prepare for the task of teaching and less is known about how they do learn
to become a teacher of chemistry rather than a learner. Semester long case studies were
conducted to explore how new chemistry graduate students start to identify as teachers of
chemistry. This study is informed by two frameworks: Wenger’s Communities of
Practice and Wortham’s Social Identification. Communities of practice frames identity
development through the development of shared practices. How do new graduate students
develop, take-up, and adapt teaching practices? Social Identification posits that models of
identity inform how identity develops during social interactions. That is, how do students’ ideas
about identity and TAs’ ideas about identity contribute to the TA’s identity development during
normal teaching activities. A case study approach was used in order to delve deeply into the
process of identification through developing practices and the social interactions between the
TAs and student. Three cases were completed and one will be discussed in depth.
