---
title: "Understanding GTA teaching practices and learning environment: Case studies of GTA teaching practice."
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2018-07-31-talk-BCCE
venue: "Biennial Conference on Chemical Education"
date: 2018-07-31
location: "South Bend, Indiana"
---

Chemistry graduate teaching assistants (GTA) engagement and interaction with the learning environment should be considered when asking “how to train” GTAs. This talk will draw on a portion of a dissertation to discuss the teaching practices of two first-year GTAs. Communities of Practice and Social Identification was used to frame the descriptive case studies. Data sources included interviews, GTA journals, and multiple observations of instruction. GTA teaching practices were described using the Classroom Observation Protocol for STEM (COPOUS) and open-coding. Fourteen teaching practices and two patterns of teaching practices were described in these cases. Additional, s structure for understanding the relationship of GTA teaching practice, GTA teaching identity, and learning environment factors (e.g. course materials, content, students) emerged from the cases. Five mediating learning environment factors emerged in the descriptions of these two GTAs. A potential model for understanding how a GTAs teaching identity and teaching practice are related to learning environment was developed. This talk will cover three components of the case studies. First, the practices identified in the case studies will be described. Second, the relationship of practices and the learning environment factors will be discussed, and last, these will be used frame a discussion of how these case studies might be used to inform the professional development of GTAs.

